#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with python 3.10
# To update, run:
#
#    pip-compile docs/requirements.in
#
cached-property==1.5.2
    # via mkdocstrings-crystal
click==8.1.3
    # via mkdocs
ghp-import==2.1.0
    # via mkdocs
importlib-metadata==4.11.3
    # via mkdocs
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   mkdocstrings-crystal
markdown==3.3.7
    # via
    #   markdown-callouts
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-autorefs
    #   mkdocs-code-validator
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   pymdown-extensions
markdown-callouts==0.2.0
    # via
    #   -r docs/requirements.in
    #   mkdocstrings-crystal
markupsafe==2.1.1
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   mkdocstrings-crystal
mergedeep==1.3.4
    # via mkdocs
mkdocs==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -r docs/requirements.in
    #   mkdocs-autorefs
    #   mkdocs-code-validator
    #   mkdocs-gen-files
    #   mkdocs-literate-nav
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocs-section-index
    #   mkdocstrings
mkdocs-autorefs==0.4.1
    # via
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   mkdocstrings-crystal
mkdocs-code-validator==0.1.2
    # via -r docs/requirements.in
mkdocs-gen-files==0.3.4
    # via -r docs/requirements.in
mkdocs-literate-nav==0.4.1
    # via -r docs/requirements.in
mkdocs-material==8.2.13
    # via -r docs/requirements.in
mkdocs-material-extensions==1.0.3
    # via mkdocs-material
mkdocs-section-index==0.3.4
    # via -r docs/requirements.in
mkdocstrings==0.18.1
    # via
    #   -r docs/requirements.in
    #   mkdocstrings-crystal
    #   mkdocstrings-python-legacy
mkdocstrings-crystal==0.3.5
    # via -r docs/requirements.in
mkdocstrings-python-legacy==0.2.2
    # via mkdocstrings
packaging==21.3
    # via mkdocs
pygments==2.12.0
    # via mkdocs-material
pymdown-extensions==9.4
    # via
    #   -r docs/requirements.in
    #   mkdocs-code-validator
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocstrings
pyparsing==3.0.8
    # via packaging
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via ghp-import
pytkdocs==0.16.1
    # via mkdocstrings-python-legacy
pyyaml==6.0
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   pyyaml-env-tag
pyyaml-env-tag==0.1
    # via mkdocs
six==1.16.0
    # via python-dateutil
watchdog==2.1.7
    # via mkdocs
zipp==3.8.0
    # via importlib-metadata
